//Assignment_12
//Feature Branches and Hotfixes Create a 'hotfix' branch to fix an issue in the main code. Merge the 'htfix' branch into 'main' ensuring that the issue is resolved.

Step-by-Step Instructions:

Create and Switch to hotfix Branch:


git checkout -b hotfix

Make the Hotfix:

Edit the necessary files to fix the issue. For example:

echo "Hotfix applied" > fixedfile.txt

Stage the Changes:

git add fixedfile.txt
Commit the Changes:

git commit -m "Fix issue in main code"
Switch Back to main Branch:

git checkout main
Merge hotfix Branch into main:

git merge hotfix
Verify the Fix:
Check that the fix is successfully merged. For example, if you created fixedfile.txt, verify its content:

cat fixedfile.txt
(Optional) Delete the hotfix Branch:
After verifying the fix, you can delete the hotfix branch:

git branch -d hotfix
Example Commands Summary:

git checkout -b hotfix
echo "Hotfix applied" > fixedfile.txt
git add fixedfile.txt
git commit -m "Fix issue in main code"
git checkout main
git merge hotfix
cat fixedfile.txt
git branch -d hotfix

Explanation:

git checkout -b hotfix: Creates and switches to the hotfix branch.
echo "Hotfix applied" > fixedfile.txt: Simulates fixing an issue by editing a file.
git add fixedfile.txt: Stages the changes.
git commit -m "Fix issue in main code": Commits the changes with a message.
git checkout main: Switches back to the main branch.
git merge hotfix: Merges the hotfix branch into main.
cat fixedfile.txt: Verifies that the fix is present in the main branch.
git branch -d hotfix: Deletes the hotfix branch.
Additional Tips:
Conflict Resolution: If there are conflicts during the merge, Git will prompt you to resolve them. You can do so by manually editing the conflicting files and then committing the resolved changes.

git add conflictingfile.txt
git commit -m "Resolve merge conflicts"

Testing: Always ensure to test your hotfix in the main branch to confirm that it resolves the issue without introducing new problems.